# Tampere University theses using LaTeΧ

Forked from https://gitlab.com/tuni-official/thesis-templates/masters-thesis 833a513d6a9b5aae2fbbedd634227fae0bf68d4f


This repository contains a template for writing BSc and MSc (Tech) theses in Tampere University using the LaTeΧ system. The styles used try to match the official Word template as closely as possible (or is worth the while).

## Compilation

This template makes use of both `biblatex` and `glossaries` packages, and therefore needs a non-standard compilation sequence. The following should do the trick, as long as your main project file is named `main.tex`:
```sh
pdflatex main.tex &&
makeindex -s main.ist -t main.glg -o main.gls main.glo &&
biber main &&
pdflatex main.tex &&
pdflatex main.tex
```

**Note:** the compiler `lualatex` can also be used instead of `pdflatex`, but the package `axessibility` will not be loaded in that case.

## Usage notes

The easiest way to use this template is to download this repository as a ZIP file, and upload the ZIP to Overleaf as a new project, on the page that lists your Overleaf projects ([link][overleaf-projects]). The ZIP file can be downloaded by navigating to the [Tags-page][project-tags-page] of this repository, and choosing the ZIP option of the latest tag. Then on Overleaf, press <kbd>New Project</kbd> → <kbd>Upload Project</kbd> → <kbd>Select a .zip file</kbd>. This will generate a new Overleaf project for you.

[overleaf-projects]: https://www.overleaf.com/project
[project-tags-page]: https://gitlab.com/tuni-official/thesis-templates/masters-thesis/-/tags

If you wish to write your thesis locally instead, you should install the latest version of the [TeX Live] LaTeΧ distribution onto your computer. This will provide access to the necessary LaTeΧ compilers and libraries, and will allow you to run the command sequence listed in the above section. Any plaintext editor can be used to write LaTeΧ code, but a recommended choice is [VS Code], with the [LaTeΧ Workshop] add-on.

[TeX Live]: https://www.tug.org/texlive/
[VS Code]: https://code.visualstudio.com
[LaTeΧ Workshop]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=James-Yu.latex-workshop

Whichever approach you choose, local or online, go ahead and try to compile the template as-is, before starting to modify it. The resulting PDF file `main.pdf` contains some directions for using the template. More helpful instructions can be found in the `.tex` files as comments.

If you run into compilation errors, please check your LaTeΧ distribution version and install the newest versions of the following packages.

* `pdfx`, `ìnputenc`, `babel`, `csquotes`, `hyperref`
* `fontenc`, `helvet`
* `geometry`, `fancyhdr`, `setspace`, `parskip`, `xcolor`, `titlesec`, `titletoc`
* `enumitem`, `graphicx`, `caption`, `listings`, `pdfpages`, `datetime2`
* `biblatex`, `glossaries`
* `accsupp`, `axessibility`, `pdfcomment`

If you ran into a compilation error and installed newer versions of the needed packages, but the document still does not compile, you might also need to delete the auxiliary files generated by the compiler in the directory, where you attempted to compile the document:

	rm main.aux main.xmpdata main.blg main.bbl main.bcf

Otherwise the LaTeΧ compiler might try to use the metadata from the failed compilation sequence, and not generate new auxiliary files where they are needed. You will not need to do this on Overleaf, as the service deletes the files for you.


## Bugs and improvements

Please use the [**Issues page**][gitlab-issues], if you have found something in the template that needs fixing, or if you have a suggestion for improvement. You might need to [create a GitLab account][gitlab-sign-up] to be able to post issues. All feedback (preferably in English, Finnish works too) is most welcome!

**Note:** Please keep each issue concise and to the point. If you have a list of suggestions, please create a separate issue for each individual suggestion. This makes the issues easier to keep track of.

[gitlab-issues]: https://gitlab.com/tuni-official/thesis-templates/masters-thesis/-/issues
[gitlab-sign-up]: https://gitlab.com/users/sign_up

## Version history

See the [`CHANGELOG`](./CHANGELOG.md) file for what has been changed in the
past. The first commit to this Git repository corresponds to the tag `v2.0`,
so versions before that are not accessible.

## Contributing

To contribute to the project, read the guidelines in the file
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
